Now we're going
to use Boolean expressions
inside of an if-else statement,
and also use console input
to ask a user what kind of music
they want to hear,
and use fitMedia() to create
different sounds in our DAW
depending on what they answer.
So the first thing I need to do
is to ask the user
what kind of music they want.
So I'll define a variable here
called a,
and I'll assign it
the result of calling
the readInput() function.
And I'll ask the user:
"Do you like hip-hop music?
Type yes or no."
So now a is going to be set
to whatever the user types in
when the dialogue box pops up.
And so I can use an if statement
to see what they typed in.
So I can check to see
if (a == "yes"),
well that means
they do like hip-hip,
so I'll play hip hop for them.
If they didn't type in yes,
then I'm going to use
an else statement
to catch the other condition.
They did not type in yes,
so they probably typed in no
or something else like that,
and there I could play
something else.
So within each of these blocks,
I'm going to put in
the fitMedia() statements
that create
the right kind of music.
So, in this if block,
I'm going to first just print
to the console
so they know what happened,
say "Hip-hop it is!"
And then put in
two fitMedia() statements
with two different
hip-hop sounds
in track one and track two.
And if they didn't say that,
I'm going to play them
some funk music instead.
So in my else block,
I'm going to put in again
a print statement
to put on the console
"Ok, here is some funk."
And then two fitMedia()
function calls putting
two different sounds
on tracks one and two
that are funk.
So now, if I press run here,
the dialogue box comes up,
asks if I like hip-hop music.
I'll type in "yes."
And I get hip-hop music.
[electronic hip-hop music]
If I press run again,
and instead I type in
"No, I don't like
hip-hop music,"
well then it says
"Ok, here's some funk,"
in the console,
and I get two tracks
of funk sounds up here.
[electronic funk music]
Now there is one problem
that we need to deal with.
I press run, and I type in
"Yes, I like hip-hop music,"
but I use a capital Y
at the beginning,
it's still going
to play some funk.
And the reason for that
is that I'm checking
what I typed in.
I'm checking to see
if it's y-e-s all lower case.
So if I type in anything else,
like y-e-s with a capital Y
or Y-E-S all capitals,
this is going to evaluate
to be false
and therefore is going
to jump down
to the else statement
and execute this block of code
instead of executing
this hip-hop code up here.
So to fix that,
I need to put in
some other conditions
that I want to check for.
So I don't just want
to see if a == "yes"
all lower case,
but I also want to see
does a == "Yes" with a capital Y
at the beginning,
or for that matter,
does a = "YES," all capitals?
And since I have "or"
in between each of these,
this means that any of these
three comparisons is true,
then the whole thing
will evaluate to true
and so therefore
will play hip-hop music.
So now, if I run this
and I type in Y-E-S,
all capitals,
it says "Hip-hop it is,"
and it plays
the hip-hop music for me.